---
title: "Pulp Cereal part five"
created: 2002-03-21
tags: 
  - gary-dirin
authors: 
  - sean
---

Gary Dirin stopped dead, held out his hands, and motioned us to be silent. The shreiking wail grew steadily louder, and in horror I realized why. Without making a sound, Gary rushed us along the tunnel in search of someplace to hide. Having passed not a single crack or gap or door in the walls since we began, we had little hope, but it was better than sitting and waiting for the inevitable. Just as it seemed our time was up, we came suddenly around a corner and into a veritable pond of the glowing fungus. The ceiling had partially collapsed there, leaving great chunks of rock across the roadway. Between and over them, and all up the walls and across the floor, and dripping in strands down from the ceiling, the fungus grew thick and glowed brightly.

Gary shoved us to the floor, then dropped himself, rolled over and over and against the wall between two of the boulders, where he curled up and with the glowing fungus obscuring his shape, he appeared as just another fallen stone. Domingo and I quickly followed suit and rolled ourselves around and around and then quickly out of the way to either side of the largest stone. And then something came screaming around a turn and rushed up the tunnel towards us.

I did my best to slow my breath and still my heart, trying desperately not to move despite the cold. I imagined that Gary and Domingo were doing the same and that gave me little comfort. I never saw the thing, nor could I say if it had even had a body as such. All I knew of it was the horrible hellish wail and the fiery red light it cast as it came upon us. Despite the red glow, it was not flame: there was no heat, and in fact, as it came a frigid breeze swept past and over me. It chilled me to the bone, even through my great coat and sweater, and as it passed the fungus seemed to stiffen, although from the cold or out of terror I know not. They say that plants have no emotion, no sense, but things under the earth are not always as we expect.

The worst of all was the sound. If you were to close your eyes and imagine what Hell sounds like, this was worse. The screams of a thousand lost souls; the cries of fair maidens in distress, the ragings of angry men, the tears of children. And this was simply what it seemed to be like, a horrible, horrible wail as I have never heard before or since, thanks the gods. Where before, faint and echoing, it had been eerie and unsettling... here it overwhelmed and overpowered. I knew only terror and if not for the cold I would have been shaking in torment, from the cold and the horror and the knowledge that I could have avoided it all by staying home that night so long now ago.

A soft couch in a warm pub and good drink and good company. That was my heaven, and this was my hell. I would have fled if I had been able to move. I would have ran screaming to the bridge, embraced the arrows, and flung myself into the flaming river to escape the terrible presence of that single moment. I would have sacrificed Gary Dirin and Domingo and all the treasure we sought and all my friends up above and all the pretty girls in the world, in a moment, without hesitation, if only that horrible thing would leave, never to return.

And then it was gone.

I lay there shaking in the cold for some time before I managed to get myself upright and get my bearings again. The tunnel was dark and cold and silent once more. The fungus semed half alive, emitting only a dim flickering glow where before it had been a steady light: a candle instead of a lamp. Hugging my coat to my body, I brushed off the fungus and fumbled for the flask of whiskey in my breast pocket, but I couldn't get my hands to close around it. Gary Dirin, in a rare moment without a smile on his face, took a matching flask from his coat and held it to my lips. A little strength returned to my body, but my courage was sapped.

After a few moments, a small question on the back of my mind formed into words, and I thought to ask Gary where Domingo had gone. He took the flask from my hand, dropped heavily to the floor, and took a drink. His answer, when he finally gave it, was that the demon had been hungry. And that was all he would say on the subject, and that is why I knew Domingo's name but not that of his brother. I never did find out why the beast took Domingo and not myself or Gary Dirin: if marksman are good at anything, holding still would be it. Perhaps he had tried to fight it. I wouldn't have heard the crack of his rifle, had he managed to fire a shot, over the horrible wail.

Some while later, I took a little from the rations we had left and prepared a quick meal, in the hopes that we might continue on, and that the horror might never pass this way again. We were just finishing up when we heard it's howls once more, and it grew steadily louder and louder as it hurried back. I didn't know if it was returning to whence it had come, or if it came then for us, but I wasn't going to sit by a second time. Gary Dirin, unsettled even just a little, swore profusely, and then he took the rifle from my shaking hands and simply said to use the other gun. The small one, with the black bullets. He then rolled over in the fungus, crossed himself, cursed the gods, and disappeared, leaving me alone to do what I could.

The sudden flare of a fiery light from around the bend was what saved me from indecision: I was so terrified that I closed my eyes and squeezed the trigger out of instinct more than intent. Thence came a crack of thunder, and I felt the bullet fling itself out of the gun and towards the beast as it came around the bend, just behind the rock fall. Then a great and horrible sound as of a train derailing into a mine shaft. This was accompanied by a fierce rush of wind around the corner, which shoved me forwards where I smashed into a boulder and managed to get a handhold before I was moved any farther. Then the wind died, and there was silence.

A chill breeze floated lazily past, and I swear that as it came I felt cold hands brush my shoulders, my face and arms, and my back, as though a thousand ghosts passed me by on their way to the underworld, and touched me to prove that they were there. I stood in terror I don't know how long, until finally I felt a warm breeze drifting down from the tunnel's entrance far above.

When then I opened my eyes, Gary Dirin was peering upwards into the crack in the ceiling, pondering something. Noticing that I had my wits about me again, he broke into that grin of his, clapped his hand on my back and offered me more of his whiskey. I took some of his medicine, and then a little of my own, before I had the nerve to look up the tunnel and see what I had killed.

There was nothing there. Scant fungus remained in the little pond, and what there was lay nestled deep between the rocks, or up in the crack in the ceiling. None of the debris from our lunch was left, which I found odd, and even my lantern I had used before the fungus had recovered was missing, which was odder. Doubts and worries filled my head as I returned the pistol to my front pocket, turned about, and sat down on a smallish boulder to regain my wits.

Obviously Gary Dirin had gotten his courage back, indeed, he seemed now to be made of the stuff. He wouldn't respond directly to my queries as to the nature of the beast, except to say that "Demon isn't entirely accurate, but for our purposes, let it suffice. Anyways, it is gone now." And then he was off on a tangent, babbling about the things he'd written down in the book, which he now said were translations from ancient texts long destroyed or forgotten. He paced back and forth, his arms dancing as he followed some path of logic I lost almost at the start. Finally he could take no more, dragged me to my feet, handed me the rifle once more, and skittered off down the tunnel like a schoolboy after last bell. There was nothing to do but follow.

My questions about the nature of the black bullets only yielded "proof of a theory" and that was all he would say on the subject. He did not fall silent, of course: rather, he took the bible from me and read aloud a passage from his overwritten manuscript, detailing some of the dangers awaiting those who venture into the ancient world, but you shall see more of these in due time.
