---
title: 'Annie and I were watching'
date: 2002-02-12
authors:
  - scott
---

Annie and I were watching a little bit of the Olympics tonight. We caught the final bit of the figure-skating duos. It was kind of interesting, as a glimpse into a different world. We listened to the announcers, who appearently have some experience in figure skating, get really rough on the people on the ice. Obviously, they need someone who can spot what's good and bad about a performance, but it was interesting how the announcers had a constant stream of criticisms, with occaisional compliments. And then it happened. What "it" is, I'm still trying to figure out, but everyone was pretty upset about it. Appearently the Canadians were the obvious winnners, and the judges gave the award to the Russians. Now, the interesting thing about this theoretical scandal is that _they never told us what it was about_. We were left to gather the clues and piece together what it was they were talking about, because they were all so emotional that they forgot to announce the facts and the neccissary background for those of us who don't follow figure skating religiously. For instance, there was appearently a collision earlier in the competition that threw off the Candadian's performance... but a collision with who? Doing what? I don't know! The announcer kept saying that we shouldn't blame the Russians, because it's the judges who made the decision. Is this something that needs to be pointed out? Is there some seamy underbelly to figure skating, where the Russians are usually to blame for bad judgements? I don't know! And the most baffling thing of all is that the female announcer said at one point, amid attempts to convince me not to blame the Russians, that she was "ashamed for her sport." I assume her sport is figure skating, but why is she ashamed? She just said the judges were to blame! What did her sport do? Is this really that big a scandal? I don't know! I don't even really want to know... I just find it fascinating that there's this much conflict and drama in figure skating. SCANDAL SCANDAL SCANDAL!!!
